4.13, plug-in development
for Safari and Web Kit.
I'm Chris Blumenberg.
I'm a Safari engineer.
So first of all,
what are you going to learn here?
Well, first of all,
you're going to learn what are plug-ins,
in case you don't already know.
Then I'm going to go into
why you develop plug-ins.
The typical reason for wanting to
develop plug-ins is to extend the
functionality of a web browser,
but you'll soon see that there
are other reasons as well.
I'll go into how to develop plug-ins.
I'll go into the types of plug-ins that
you can develop and then the issues
involved with developing those plug-ins.
And then I'll discuss using
plug-ins in your web page.
That will involve the right kind
of HTML for embedding your plug-in
on a web page as well as scripting
your plug-in from JavaScript.
So what are plug-ins?
Well, plug-ins are libraries.
Typically,
they're written by third parties.
You may be familiar
with Photoshop plug-ins.
They add filter effects
to images in Photoshop.
Well, in web browsers,
plug-ins support content types that
the browser doesn't handle by default.
For example,
without the Apple QuickTime plug-in,
you wouldn't be able to
see QuickTime movies in
Safari and other web browsers.
Other popular examples are Mac for
MediaFlash and Windows Media Player.
So why would you want
to develop a plug-in?
Well, first of all,
you'd want to extend web browsers,
as I mentioned before.
You'd want to handle content
types that the web browser
doesn't handle by default.
And the other reason for wanting to
write a plug-in for a web browser
is to basically run native code.
From a web page, you can display HTML.
You can run JavaScript.
But in some cases,
you may want to run some
native code to get some sort
of rich browsing experience.
And the other major reason for
writing a plug-in is to extend
your Web Kit application.
If you have a Web Kit application,
the only way that you can get a
widget inside of a WebView is to,
you know, write a plug-in.
For example, Mail uses plug-ins for their
file attachment widget,
or they will be using plug-ins for their
file attachment widget in Mail messages.
And dashboard widgets can use plug-ins,
too.
So I think you have about 24 hours
to get a dashboard widget working,
and you can probably get a pretty
cool one if you use a plug-in.
So this is the biggest
part of my talk here.
It's how to develop plug-ins.
First of all,
I'll be covering the two types of
plug-ins or the two types of APIs that
you can use to develop a plug-in.
First of all, I'll be discussing the
Neskate plug-in API.
It's been around for a number of years.
I'm sure that most of
you are familiar with it.
And then I'll discuss
the Web Kit plug-in API,
which is something completely new,
and I'll go into depth
about that shortly.
Then I'll discuss a bunch of things
which relate to both kinds of plug-ins.
That is, using bundles,
which is how you represent and how
you package up your plug-in on disk,
and then registration,
which is how you actually register
your plug-in with the host application.
Then I'll go into installation,
which is basically where
you install your plug-in.
So here in this whizzy graphic here,
you can see that there are two types of
plug-ins that work in Safari and Web Kit.
There's the Netscape plug-in
and there's the Web Kit plug-in.
First, I'm going to focus on
the Netscape plug-in.
So before I go any further about this,
I'm going to discuss history.
So the Netscape plug-in
API has been around since 1996.
It was introduced in Netscape 2.0.
Microsoft Internet Explorer shortly
after adopted it in their version 3.0.
is a developer at Microsoft.
He's been working on a
lot of the development
So here's what the Netscape
plug-in API provides.
It provides a drawing API so that your
plug-in knows when and where to draw.
It provides an events API so that
your plug-in can receive user events.
It provides a networking API so
that your plug-in can send
and receive network streams.
So before I go in depth
about any sort of APIs,
I want to discuss an issue about the
actual file format of your plug-in.
Well, on Mac OS X,
a plug-in or library can be
compiled in two different ways.
It can be compiled in Mach-O or PEF,
a.k.a.
CFM file formats.
Well,
we really like it for you to use Mach-O.
It's the native object
file format on Mac OS X.
And CFM is really something of
the past back in the classic days.
Mach-O plug-ins load much
faster than CFM plug-ins.
In fact, when the QuickTime plug-in
was ported over to Mach-O,
we found that it loaded 100 times faster.
New APIs on the system are
only going to be provided,
are only going to be available to
Mach-O applications and libraries.
They won't be available for
CFM applications and libraries.
And you can develop and debug a
Mach-O plug-in inside of Xcode.
That can't be done with CFM.
So here's the big news.
We're extending the Netscape API.
We're adding more stuff to it.
First of all,
we're adding a scripting API,
which is the ability for your plug-in
to be accessed from JavaScript,
and from your plug-in,
you can get to JavaScript and
the rest of the document.
We're also adding an
API to access HTTP headers.
This is kind of a developer request here.
This allows your plug-in
to get at the HTTP headers,
which is basically all the server
information besides the content.
Also,
we're adding a state information API.
This is an API that allows
you to get the state of the
plug-in inside of the web page,
that is, whether the plug-in is in
the frontmost tab or not,
whether the window is the
frontmost window or not,
whether the window is minimized or not.
And we're adding much more.
You can expect to hear
a lot more from us.
And what's important about this is
that this is not just an Apple thing.
We're working with
companies such as Mozilla,
Macromedia,
and Opera to basically get this new
API working in many web browsers
and many plug-ins out there.
So here's my whizzy
Netscape scripting graphic.
So I'm going to discuss
Netscape scripting.
This is basically the only new Netscape
API that I'm going to discuss today.
So what is scripting?
Well, it allows JavaScript to
access your plug-ins,
and it allows plug-ins to access
JavaScript and the rest of the document.
So the Netscape API used to actually
provide this functionality in a
technology called Live Connect.
Live Connect is a Java API.
It's pretty slow because it involves
starting up a Java VM and involving
Java in this rather simple communication
between a plug-in and a browser.
In Web Kit, Live Connect is only
used for Java applets.
We don't support it for
communication with plug-ins.
Well, in the new API, it's a C API.
That is, it's just like the rest
of the Netscape API.
It's all based on C,
and it's much faster than Live Connect.
So I'm going to talk about--
I'm going to get more in depth
about the scripting API here,
but first I'm going to
discuss the communication from
JavaScript to the Netscape plug-in.
So when JavaScript encounters
your plug-in in a script,
it will call NPP get value to get
the NP class and the NP object,
which represent your plug-in.
Now, the NP class you can think
of as the interface between
your plug-in and JavaScript,
and NP object is the,
you can think of that as an
instance of your NP class.
I'll get more into that shortly.
So here's an example.
I hope you can see that.
Here's an example of NPP get value.
In this case,
if the variable that the browser
is asking the plug-in for is NPP v
plug-in scriptable NP object,
I then return an NP object,
which represents my
plug-in to JavaScript.
And here's NP class.
So, NP class is basically a struct,
consists of a struct version and
a set of function pointers which
define the interface between
your plug-in and JavaScript.
First of all, there's allocate.
The allocate function is called
to allocate an NP object.
Deallocate is called to
deallocate that NP object.
Invalidate is called when JavaScript no
longer is using your NP object.
has method is called when
JavaScript is calling your-- is
calling a method on your NPE object
to make sure it actually has it.
Invoke is called to invoke a
specific method on your NP object.
And has property is called to check
if your NP object has a property.
Get property is called to get a
value for a specific property.
Set property is called to set a
And here's an example of NP object.
In this case,
my NP object is a movie object.
It basically contains an
NP class and a reference count.
Those are the required
fields of the struct there.
And then everything that follows
is basically anything else that
I want to have in that NP object.
So what you can see
here is my movie object.
This is basically how I represent
my plug-in in JavaScript.
So here's an example of movie allocate,
my allocate function.
Basically, allocates a movie object and
returns it to JavaScript.
And here's an example of MP invoke,
excuse me, movie invoke,
which is my movie,
which is my invoke function.
So if JavaScript is calling play,
I just call play movie,
which is an internal
function within my plug-in.
If JavaScript is calling pause,
I just call pause movie,
which is an internal
function within my plug-in.
And, you know,
before I exit this function,
I set a return value.
In this case, well, in either case,
I have no return value,
so I set undefined.
So I've discussed the communication
from JavaScript to the plug-in.
Now I'm going to go in
the opposite direction.
And that's from the
plug-in to JavaScript.
So the way this works is that if your
plug-in wants to get a JavaScript,
the interpreter and the
rest of the document,
it basically calls NPN get
value to get the window object
using the variable name here,
NPN vWindowNPObject.
So once it gets back this window object,
it's basically an NP object,
so I can start making
NP object calls on it.
For example, I can call create object,
which creates an object.
I'll actually need to implement this
in order to return an object back to
JavaScript if I ever need to do that.
Retain object in case I want to keep
a specific object around for a while.
And of course, for every retain,
you have to do a release,
so there's release object.
And here are my invocation methods.
There's NPN call,
which allows me to invoke a
specific method on an NP object.
And then there's NPN Evaluate,
which allows me to take a string,
a JavaScript string,
and evaluate it and get back a result.
And here are property access methods,
which allow me to get to actual
properties of NP objects.
So there's NPN getProperty,
which returns a property of an NP object.
SetProperty, which allows me to change
a property of an NP object.
NPN removeProperty,
which allows me to remove
a property of an NP object.
So let's do a little demo.
Sorry, I need a drink.
OK, so what I'm going to show here
is my little Netscape plug-in.
It's called Netscape Movie Plug-in.
It's basically just like
the QuickTime plug-in,
just a little simpler.
And what I'm going to show you
here is I'm not going to go too
in-depth with the code here.
As you can see, it's pretty complex.
It takes a good amount of
code to basically get a
simple plug-in up and running,
a Netscape plug-in up
and running in Web Kit.
So what I want to show you
actually here in this file is
the number of lines it takes.
It takes about 626 lines to get
a simple plug-in up and running.
So remember that number because
it's going to matter a little
later in this presentation.
So let's give this guy a try.
Cross your fingers.
So as you can see here,
I basically have my little plug-in
working in here on this web page.
This is not the QuickTime plug-in.
I don't even have it installed.
So on this page,
I have the plug-in and two form elements,
play and pause.
Now,
these form elements are actually calling
JavaScript functions on my movie.
for seamless integration
of iPod and automobile.
So that's it.
So you can actually download that
plug-in from connect.apple.com and
use it as a template if you want to.
To the presentation machine, please.
Okay, here we go.
Okay.
Okay, so I've discussed the development
of a Netscape plug-in,
so now let's focus on the
development of a Web Kit plug-in.
Well, the Web Kit plug-in
API is an Objective-C API.
It's a Cocoa API.
It's very simple.
Both Cocoa and the API,
the plug-in API itself,
are very simple to work with.
Any Web Kit plug-in that you work,
that you develop, will work inside of a
Web Kit application.
So here's what the
Web Kit plug-in API provides.
Well, first of all,
every instance of your
plug-in is an NSView.
So there's no explicit API for
dealing with events or drawing.
That's all done the NSView way.
There's no explicit API for URL loading
because you can do that very easily
yourself using NSURL connection,
which is a foundation API.
Another thing that this API provides
is access to Web Kit classes
such as Web Frame so that you
can have a closer interaction with
Web Kit if you choose to have that.
And also, it has a scripting API,
which is basically
Web Kit's new scripting API,
which was discussed
in depth this morning,
but I'll go into that shortly.
So here's the first method that
your plug-in should implement.
It's called plug-in view with arguments.
This is actually the only method
your plug-in needs to implement.
So as you can see,
it's very simple to get one
of these up and running.
So plug-in view with arguments
basically returns your plug-in view,
the plug-in view which is supposed
to be inside of your web view.
And here's some other plug-in methods.
These are all optional.
You can implement them if you want.
The first one is Web Plug-in Initialize.
This method is called soon
after your plug-in is created.
In this method,
you basically start allocating
resources and doing that sort of thing.
Then there's Web Plug-in Start.
In this method, you start doing work.
You start animating.
And this is what plug-ins stop.
In this method, you stop doing work.
You see some sort of animation.
Then there's Web Plug-in Destroy.
In this method,
you destroy or dealloc any sort
of resources that you might have,
or you can just wait until
you get the dealloc method.
And here are some other methods
that your plug-in can implement.
First of all,
this Web plug-in is selected.
This is called when your plug-in's
selection state has changed.
So if you are selected,
you probably want to draw
some sort of selection state.
And here's Object for Web Script.
This is the method that returns
the object which represents
your plug-in in JavaScript,
and I'll go into that shortly.
So here are the container methods.
These are the methods that from your
plug-in you can call onto the container.
So first of all,
there's Web plug-in container
load request and frame.
This basically tells the
container to load a specific
web page in a specific frame.
Oops.
Okay.
Then there's what plug-in
container shows status.
If the container, such as Safari,
has a status bar,
it should show some sort of
status message at the bottom
of the page at this point.
Then there's Web Plugin
Container Selection Color.
So if your plug-in is selected,
it should use this selection color
to draw some sort of selection state.
And lastly, there's Web Frame.
So from your plug-in,
you can get the Web Frame,
which contains the plug-in.
From the Web Frame,
you can get to the Web Data Source and
the WebView and all the
other Web Kit classes.
Okay, so now I'm going to go
into Web Kit scripting.
This was covered this morning,
but I'm just going to
brush over this right now.
First of all, I'll go into scripting from
JavaScript to your Web Kit plug-in.
When JavaScript encounters
your plug-in object,
it will call object for web script to
get the object to see representation
of your JavaScript object.
Now that object that is returned can
choose to implement these methods.
First of all,
there's WebScript name for selector,
which allows you to choose a name given
a selector that your object implements.
And then there is isSelector
is excluded from WebScript.
Now, in this method,
you basically decide which methods
you want your plug-in to implement.
Now, this method is pretty important
as far as security is concerned
because you only want to export
methods that you think are secure,
won't crash the page and what have you.
So here's an example of an implementation
of is selection excluded from web script.
In this case,
I'm allowing the play method
on my plug-in to be exported.
And at the bottom there is just a
simple limitation of a play method.
Then here are some methods
about property access.
First of all,
there's WebScript name for key,
which allows me to choose a name
given a property on my plug-in object.
And then there is is key
excluded from WebScript.
And just like the previous
method or like the method that
dealt with JavaScript methods,
in here I choose which properties
I want to export to JavaScript.
So there is--here's an example.
IsKey excluded from Web Script.
In this example,
I'm allowing muted-- the muted
property of my object to be exported.
And at the bottom there are some
methods which allow the key value
coding to access my muted property.
Okay, so I've discussed scripting from
JavaScript to your Web Kit plug-in.
Now let's go in the other direction.
So from your plug-in,
you can get at the document or the
window object in two different ways.
You can call
Windows Script Object on WebView,
which will return the Objective-C version
of the JavaScript window object,
or you can call DOM Document on WebFrame,
which will basically be the
DOM Document which contains your plug-in.
So here's the interface for
Windows Script Object on WebView.
As you can see here,
it returns a WebScript object.
So I'm going to just show
you now a few methods that
WebScript Object implements or provides.
First of all, there's setValueForKey,
which allows you to set a specific value
for a specific key on a WebScript object.
Then there's valueForKey,
which allows you to get
a value given a key.
There's call-webscript method with
arguments which allows you to invoke a
specific method on a WebScript object.
There's evaluate-webscript which allows
you to evaluate a JavaScript string.
And then here's the interface for getting
the DOM document off the web frame.
As you can see here,
it returns a DOM document object.
And here's just kind of a
hodgepodge of methods that
DOM document implements and provides.
Actually, these methods are also DOM node
methods because DOM document
is a subclass of DOM node.
So here's attributes.
This allows me to get the attributes
of the document or DOM node.
Here's paranode,
which gives me the paranode
of a document or a DOM node.
childNodes gives me the
children of a DOM node,
firstChild gives me the
first child of a DOM node.
These are rather self-explanatory.
lastChild gives me the
last child of a DOM node,
previous sibling, so on and so forth.
So for more information
about the DOM document,
DOM nodes, I suggest you go to this
talk on Friday at 10.30.
I'm not sure of the number.
Maybe you want to give that to me?
426.
That will discuss the
DOM document and all that,
as well as editing,
if you're interested in that.
So let's do a little
demo of a WebKit plugin.
So I'm not very original.
My Web Kit plug-in does the same
thing as my previous plug-in does.
It's called Web Kit Movie Plug-in.
But remember that the previous
plug-in did everything in
about 600 plus lines of code.
This does it in...
So, as you can see,
it's extremely easy to
write one of these puppies.
So,
I'm not going to go into the code here,
but I'm just going to go
into a little demo of it.
Okay, so you may be thinking now, okay,
he just did this same
demo two times in a row.
That's pretty damn boring.
Okay, so let me try to spice
it up a little bit.
Wouldn't it be cool if I could somehow
control the play rate of that movie?
You know, control how fast it
plays from the webpage.
So I'll go down to my plug-in here
and enable my set play rate function.
And the very important step,
I exported it to
JavaScript here in this method.
Give it a little compiling.
It works.
And then I'll go into my HTML file.
And enable a slider which is a
kind of new form control that
is sort of Web Kit specific.
And as you can see here,
my slider basically just
calls setMoviePlayerRate,
which is a JavaScript function
which calls my plug-in.
And let's give this a try.
Oops.
Hey, it's beta.
Let's give it another try.
Okay, so there you go.
Okay, so that's my Web Kit plug-in demo.
So I've discussed the two
types of plug-ins that you can
develop for Safari and Web Kit.
Let's give them a little comparison.
So first of all,
the Netskit plug-in API is a C API.
It's cross-platform.
The same API will work on Windows, Linux,
and the Mac.
It works in most web browsers out there.
In fact, it probably works in all
web browsers out there.
And the Web Kit plug-in API is
a Cocoa Objective C API.
It only works in Web Kit applications.
It's possible that it may work in
other applications in the future.
And as you've seen here,
it's very easy to develop
one of these things.
So now I'm going to get into some issues
that relate to both types of plug-ins.
Well, first of all,
plug-ins on disk are bundles.
Well, what is a bundle?
A bundle is a folder which
contains the library.
That is the compiled
code of your plug-in.
It contains resources,
which are the resources that
your plug-in may want to use,
such as images and those types of things.
It contains localizations,
so your plug-in can be localized
in many different languages.
A single plug-in bundle can be
localized in many different languages.
And lastly,
it contains registration information
so that your plug-in is properly
registered with a host application.
So let's get into
registration information.
Well, your plug-in is responsible
for registering the content
types that it can handle.
That registration information can
be stored in two different ways.
The first way and the way these days
or the way that it's always been
done is with Carbon resource files.
The new way is with the Info.plist file.
Basically, the Info.plist file is,
you're probably all familiar with it,
but it's just a very easy way
to edit and maintain metadata.
You can use it for your
application or a bundle.
On Mach OS X, this is a modern way
of actually doing it.
Working with Carbon resource
files tends to be a big pain.
So if you care, currently,
Info.plist files only work
in Web Kit applications,
but if you care about working with
other browsers as well on the Mach,
you can use both,
and that'll work just fine.
So let me go into registration
via the Info.plist file.
First of all, you want to provide the
description of your plug-in,
which is the user visible
description of your plug-in.
Then you want to provide a key and
value for the name of your plug-in,
which is the user visible
name of your plug-in.
And lastly,
you want to go into the MIME types
that your plug-in can handle.
So within that MIME type,
you want to specify the extensions
that map that MIME type,
as well as a user-visible
description for that MIME type.
So with all this information,
you'll be able to register
your plug-in nice and easily
inside of a Web Kit application.
Now that may look a little complex.
It certainly does to me.
But inside of Property List Editor,
it's very easy to write
one of these things.
So you've got your plug-in compiled.
It's got all the registration
information all set up.
Where do you install this thing?
Well, you can install it in
three different places.
You can install it in slash library
slash internet plug-ins so that it works
with all applications for all users.
You can install it in tilde library
slash internet plug-ins so that
it works for all applications
just for that specific user.
Or you can install it in the plug-ins
directory of your application so it will
only work inside of that application.
So this is the last part of my talk here.
This is actually how to use your plug-in.
I'm going to first discuss the
good kind of HTML for embedding
your plug-in on a web page,
and then I'll discuss how you
script your plug-in from JavaScript.
Well, most web browsers out there
support the embed tag.
It's a sufficient way of
embedding a plug-in on a web page.
But if you have a
Windows version of your plug-in,
you'll need to use the object tag.
Well, it's possible to use HTML that does
both and thus works with all browsers.
Here's the embed tag.
I'm sure you've seen it all before.
And here's the object tag.
It's required by Windows.
And param tags, which are...
children of the object tag,
and then the embed tag,
which is also a child of the object tag.
And that's basically it.
So with this little somewhat
lengthy HTML snippet here,
you can get your plug-in
working on all browsers.
So let's get into scripting
now from JavaScript.
Basically,
each instance of your plug-in on
the page has a JavaScript object
which represents it.
You can get at that JavaScript object
by name or by number.
Once you actually have it,
you can call the exposed methods on
it as well as the exposed properties.
So here's a little sample.
This is actually taken
right from my demo here.
Here I am getting a plug-in by name.
Since I know that -- excuse me,
by number.
Since I know that it's the
first plug-in on the page,
I can just use index
zero on the embeds array.
And then here's an example of me
using or calling a plug-in method,
which is play.
And then here's an example of
me getting a plug-in by name.
You don't see it here,
but my embed tag actually
has a name attribute,
which is movie plug-in.
And here I am getting
it by movie plug-in.
And at the bottom there,
I'm actually getting and
setting a plug-in property.
So everything that I discussed today
is going to be available on Safari,
is available on Safari and
Web Kit 1.3 beta on Panther.
You can download it now
at connect.apple.com.
It's also available on your
Tiger seed that you got today,
except for the new
Netscape scripting APIs.
Those are only available
on the Panther beta.
Now once both the Panther and
Tiger versions of Safari go GM,
everything that I mentioned
today will work in both.
You can go to connect.apple.com
to get sample code,
links, and demos.
You can actually get the demos
which I showed you today,
and you can use them as
templates if you want.
You can also go there for new
documentation for Web Kit.
And lastly, at the bottom there,
you can go to that Netscape
URL to get information about
the Netscape plug-in API.
That doesn't actually
include the new APIs.
To get at those and for
information about those,
you need to actually use
my demo that I gave today.